FirefoxOS Scaling Website (FXOSS)
================================

Below you will find basic setup and deployment instructions for the FXOSS
project. To begin you should have the following applications installed on your
local development system::

- Python >= 2.6 (2.7 recommended)
- `pip >= 1.1 <http://www.pip-installer.org/>`_
- `virtualenv >= 1.7 <http://www.virtualenv.org/>`_
- `virtualenvwrapper >= 3.0 <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenvwrapper>`_
- PostgreSQL >= 9.1.11
- git >= 1.7


Getting Started
------------------------

To setup your local environment you should create a virtualenv and install the
necessary requirements::

    mkvirtualenv fxoss -r $PWD/requirements/dev.txt

Then create a local settings file and set your ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` to use it::

    cp $PWD/project/settings/local.py-dist $PWD/project/settings/local.py

Create the PostgreSQL database and run the initial syncdb/migrate::

    createdb fxoss
    python manage.py syncdb

Due to extensions to the Page Model, the initial migrations require special
attention. This will be resolved in a future version.  To migrate the site, you
will need to temporarily add the following snippet to
``projects.settings.base.EXTRA_MODEL_FIELDS``::

    (
        "mezzanine.pages.models.Page.closing",
        "TextField",  # 'django.db.models.' is implied if path is omitted.
        ("Closing Paragraph",),
        {"default": '', "blank": True},
    ),
     (
        "mezzanine.pages.models.Page.subtitle",
        "CharField",  # 'django.db.models.' is implied if path is omitted.
        ("Subtitle",),
        {"max_length": 128, "default": '', "blank": True},
    )


Next, execute the following::

    python manage.py migrate sandstone 0004

Remove the fields from the settings file and continue with the remaing
migrations::

    python manage.py migrate

You should now be able to run the development server::

    python manage.py runserver


Deployment
------------------------

TODO


Fixtures
------------------------

Load the default fixtures for the site. Currently, the only fixtures that exist
define a *Content Authors* **Group**. To run:

    python manage.py loaddata fixture_groups.json


Adding Languages
------------------------

Content translations are managed using `django-modeltranslation <https://django-modeltranslation.readthedocs.org>`_.
Currently selected fields on the ``Page``, ``RichTextPage``, ``Link``, ``Form`` and ``Field`` models
are translated. The current settings are managed in ``project/translation.py``. Because of
the way django-modeltranslation manages the translations, adding additional languages requires
a migration of the tables related to these models. The migrations for these models is stored in
``project/migrations`` and managed by South.

To create a new translation migration simply add the language to the ``LANGUAGES`` setting and run:

    python manage.py schemamigration pages adding_<language> --auto
    python manage.py schemamigration forms adding_<language> --auto

Naming the migrations ``adding_<language>`` is not required but the auto-generated names are much more
difficult to read and understand.

Unfortunately the default migration files generated by South are also not entirely reliable. You might see
errors like::

    django.core.exceptions.FieldError: Local field 'title_fr' in class 'Link' clashes with field of similar name from base class 'Page'

``RichTextPage``, ``Link`` and ``Form`` models are all extensions of the ``Page`` model yet for some reason
South tries to add the columns to both base ``Page`` table and the subclassed tables. However these additional
columns aren't needed. You need to remove references to the ``Page`` columns ``title``, ``description`` from
these models' migrations and frozen ORM references. Once those have been cleaned up you can apply the migrations::

    python manage.py migrate pages forms

Be sure that you clean up both the forwards and backwards migrations in case the migration needs to be rolled back.
